Document some roles and responsibilities on the engineering team (#452)
sourcegraph/about: handbook/engineering/roles.md

# Roles on the Engineering team

This page lists the roles on the Engineering team and some of the responsibilites for each of the roles. 

## Software Engineer

Sofware Engineers are individual contributors who build software to satisfy the needs of the business.

### Responsibilities

- Collaborate with your direct manager to identify projects that align your skills and interests with the needs of the business.
- Write [RFCs](rfcs/index.md) to recommend solutions to product and engineering problems.
- Commit to a reasonable amount of work that you are going to get done for each [monthly release](releases/index.md), and then reliably get it done.
- Create and maintain high quality code, tests, and documentation.
- Help your teammates by empathetically [reviewing code](code_reviews.md) and [RFCs](rfcs/index.md).
- Interview candidates and suggest improvements to our hiring process.

> ## Software Engineer Manager 

Reviewer: Do you have a preference for this term compared to the shorter "Engineering Manager"?

Author: I had not given any thought to this. Engineering Manager is more standard and shorter so I changed this.

> Software Engineer Managers are people managers who build teams of [Software Engineers](#software-engineer) to statisfy the needs of the business.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Software Engineer Managers are people managers who build teams of [Software Engineers](#software-engineer) to satisfy the needs of the business.
```

### Responsibilities

- Collaborate with [product](../product/index.md) to maintain a [prioritized roadmap](../../direction/index.md) for the work owned by your team.
- Commit to a set of work that will be accomplished by the team for each [monthly release](releases/index.md) and capture those commitments in a tracking issue on GitHub.
- Conduct monthly [retrospectives](retrospectives/index.md) with your team.

> - Mentor and coach engineers through regular [1-1s](../leadership/1-1.md) to level up their careers.

Reviewer 2: Nit / personal preference.

```suggestion
- Mentor and coach engineers through regular [1-1s](../leadership/1-1.md) to grow their careers.
```

- [Review the performance](../people-ops/performance-reviews.md) of your direct reports to determine compensation.
- Interview candidates and own making improvements to our hiring process.
- Review applications and make final hiring decisions for candidates interested in your team.

## VP Engineering

### Responsibilities

TODO

## Switching roles

> Switching between an individual contributor role and a people management role (or vice versa) is a role change (not a promotion or a demotion). Each role requires a different set of skills. Generally we expect people managers to have experience doing the role of their direct reports.

Author: ```suggestion
Switching between an individual contributor role and a people management role (or vice versa) is a role change (not a promotion or a demotion). Each role requires a different set of skills. Generally we expect people managers to have experience doing the role of their direct reports. Role changes may involve, or be driven by, a team organization change.
```

### Individual contributor to people manager

1. The IC is interested in becoming a people manager and understands how a people manager role differs from an individual contributor role.

> 2. The IC's manager agrees that the IC is a good candidate for a people manager role. Ideally the IC is already doing the parts of the job that are possible to do as an IC already (e.g. technical leadership, planning, mentoring). The IC's manager should collect feedback from relevant teammates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The IC's manager agrees that the IC is a good candidate for a people manager role. Ideally the IC is already doing some parts of the job that are applicable — technical leadership, planning, mentoring. The IC's manager should collect feedback from relevant teammates.
```

> 3. The IC's manager identifies a small initial set of people for the IC to manage (e.g. 2-3 direct reports) for 1-2 months. This role change may involve, or be driven by, a team organization change.

Reviewer 2: I think the deleted part ("This role change may involve, or be driven by, a team organization change.") would make more sense in the introductory paragraph at the top of the "Switching roles" section.

```suggestion
3. The IC's manager identifies a small initial set of people for the IC to manage (e.g. 2-3 direct reports) for 1-2 months.
```

4. The IC's manager communicates to the team that this is a trial and the timeline for that trial.
5. The IC sets up [1-1s](../leadership/1-1.md) with their new reports and the IC's manager continues their 1-1s with these reports (but may reduce the candence).

> 6. Throughout the trial period the IC's manager 

Reviewer: Incomplete sentence.

Author: oops!

```suggestion
6. Throughout the trial period the IC and the IC's manager discuss whether the trial is on track for success (and if not, what corrective actions can be taken).
```

7. After the trial period is over the IC's manager decides if the trial was a success.
  - Questions to consider:
    - Is the IC happy in the new role?
    - Are the IC's direct reports happy?
    - Is the IC's manager happy? 
  - Outcomes:
    - If the trial was not a success then revert back to the previous state.

>     - If the trial was a success then the IC is not a people manager and we can move forward with adding more direct reports in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - If the trial was a success then the IC is now a people manager and we can move forward with adding more direct reports in the future.
```
